---
layout: post
title: "Hidden States"
date: 2013-05-18 14:48
comments: true
categories: Pole-Vault
---

I spent some time moping after the disappointing no-height. Sure, it's easy to blame it on the lack of sleep, but I was pissed at myself for not (never) producing acceptable results, no matter how much I put in. I thought a lot about hidden states which produce physical outcomes. You can only work on the hidden states, but you usually only measure the physical outcomes. Clearly I've developed the hidden states a lot this year, <!-- more -->even though the outcomes have been sub-par. I thought about how pissed off I was about how much energy I had put into this sport to not accomplish my goals- to end the season full circle with a final height of zero. I thought dangerous thoughts that maybe I didn't actual change anything this whole year, since results-wise it seemed to mimic my senior year of high school. Maybe all that time and energy were for naught. But the whole time I'm laughing. And then I come home and talk and laugh with my friends, and forget about pole vault. And walk down to my room see all the anger, confusion, and sadness melt away and transform into confidence and clear intentions. Obviously this was not the end of Ben Schreck, pole vaulter. I have at least two more years. This was the mental year. The year shit was uncovered, untied, exposed, understood, dealt with, and used. I have learned more about myself and the world this year than any other year of my life by far. I have a completely different demeanor now than the beginning of the year. My confidence no longer rests on comparisons to others and compliments I receive. My emotions no longer sway to the rhythms of my surroundings- I am never held hostage by a misguided emotion. I direct my life now. Though I occasionally misstep, such as at today's meet, I do not believe those missteps become a part of me; I do not factor those missteps into how I carry myself in the world. They are all mistakes to be learned from, puzzled to be solved whose solutions come with keys to hidden compartments of my mind.
