---
layout: post
title: "2013 Vault Journal Day Two"
date: 2013-01-21 14:08
comments: true
categories: Pole-Vault
---

Ran thru at the meet on Saturday, but did not get frustrated the whole time, and only felt a bit of pressure. After, I knew I was fundamentally okay, and changed from previous years. My mind is solid, my confidence is sold, and the only thing holding me back is that the fallback when I don't think is running through. In practice today, I started at bending from 3 on a small pole, started going up poles and then going to 4 and continuing to go up poles. I was perfect until moved from the 14 165 to the 14 170. <!-- more --> Because it felt bigger, and carried "baggage" as a real pole that I use that's "big" (even though I blow through on my first jump every time), something went off in my mind that said "risky" without me even articulating any thoughts. I couldn't take off with it. I went back down to the other pole and was completely fine. I kept swapping between the two but there was like this wall of risk in my mind preventing me from jumping on the bigger one. Eventually I tried another approach and went back to 5 steps with the smaller pole. I took two run throughs again here and hit the wall again. It seemed like maybe a slightly lower, softer wall though. Rewiring my brain to know that these two things are not actually risky is what I need to accomplish. And I need to do it not just for the 14 170 and a 5 step run, but for any bigger pole and any longer run. I think the way I will do that is by tearing down the wall brick by brick, slowly realizing (with my full mental concentration of what exactly I am doing) that the behavior is not actually risky. I plan to start with steps, because the wall seems lower (I never had a physical issue with steps- it is just a byproduct of other issues, whereas the bigger pole issue stems from a less than solid view of my grip, which originally came from the 3 times I let go of the pole).
