---
layout: post
title: "Yes"
date: 2014-02-09 14:35
comments: true
categories: Pole-Vault
---

Much of these ideas I got from my amazing coach, Patrick Barragan.

I'm about to trivialize 7 years of mental struggle and anguish in my life into a single idea, and basically a single word. This idea is that we all have unique control over our minds, and over the path that we choose to take in this world. That with training, determination, and belief we can reach the center of our own beings, and make a decision on our own, without external influence. That we have "free will".

For pole vault, that we can turn on all the green lights and say the word "yes" whenever we want to. Whether or not we actually have the power to make these decisions is irrelevant. What matters is that we believe wholeheartedly in the decision we make. That when we say "yes, I can pole vault and I can pole vault well whenever I want to, and whenever I want to is all the time, regardless of extraneous external sensory input that act to tell me otherwise", we truly believe that is the case. It's not something we come to in our rational mind that may be sidestepped by stronger parts of the brain like the places where fear and other emotions live. To actually make a decision, we need to let it envelop our entire being. To turn on all the green lights, and unplug all the red lights.

This is one of the hardest things to do in life, because it involves absolute control and belief in that control over our minds. That is where the complications arise, and why it took me 7 years to arrive at this point.

But once here, we realize that given enough time, we can do anything.
